Db Rework (#249)
metalbear-co/docs: docs/sharing-the-cluster/db-branching/connection.md

---
title: Connection Modes
description: How mirrord locates your source database connection details for DB branching
tags:
  - team
  - enterprise
---

This page covers the `connection` field of a DB branch config - how mirrord locates the source database connection details. It applies to all database engines. For general concepts and the full list of config fields, see the [DB Branching overview](../db-branching.md).

mirrord supports two ways of specifying how to connect to the source database: a full **connection URL** or **individual connection parameters**.

> #### Connection URL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Connection URL
```

do these for all title that make sense in this page, so they will appear in the table of content on the right (## for to make them appear)

- `"env_from"`: From the target pod's `envFrom` field (`secretRef` or `configMapRef`). mirrord replicates the `envFrom` sources onto the init container so it can resolve the variable at runtime.

#### Individual Connection Parameters (Params)

Instead of a single connection URL, you can specify each connection parameter separately. This is useful when your application stores host, port, user, password, and database as individual environment variables.

Available parameters: `host`, `port`, `user`, `password`, `database`. Each field is individually optional - mirrord fills in database-specific defaults for any parameters not specified. Non-existent envinroment variables are also filled with defaults. Specify the parameters that your application uses to connect to the database.

```json
{
  "connection": {
    "params": {
      "host": "DB_HOST",
      "port": "DB_PORT",
      "user": "DB_USER",
      "password": "DB_PASSWORD",
      "database": "DB_NAME"
    }
  }
}
```

Defaults
| Database | Port | User |
| --- | --- | --- |
| PostgreSQL | `5432` | `postgres` |
| MySQL | `3306` | `root` |
| MSSQL | `1433` | `sa` |
| MongoDB | `27017` | `root` |
| Redis | `6379` | `default` |

> Default for host is `localhost` on all databases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Default for `connection.params.host` is `localhost` for all databases.
```
